
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Cats walk on their toes.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 Â° and 102.5 Â°F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 Â° or above 103 Â°F.
The group of words associated with cat (catt,ï¿½cath,ï¿½chat,ï¿½katze) stem from the Latinï¿½catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed toï¿½feles, or wild cat.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
Most cats adore sardines.
In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
Female felines are \superfecund
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Female cats are polyestrous
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
Cats have supersonic hearing
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.